JEE FOR ME
4th April, 2015
    “I don’t want anything ……just leave me alone!!”, I shouted at my mother knowing that whatever happened ,happened because of me . I kept crying ,sitting on the chair and just stared at my phone which was ringing . My girlfriend was calling to ask how my exam went. Not only her but everybody was continuously calling to ask about my exam. Everybody knew and were more confident than me that I would clear IIT JEE. And I was not crying that what will I tell them .NO ,but I was crying because whatever I dreamt from class 8th , whatever I worked hard for one year has been shattered.
   Yes I was not able to clear JEE MAINS which I thought I could crack without even joining any coaching. And after joining every coaching and test series I was still not able to clear the exam. Before starting my real story, lets backup a little bit. It all started in class 8 th , when I went to IIT Kanpur’s  Social and Cultural fest ANTARAGINI. It was the first time when I heard about a place called IIT. Atfirst I knew only that it was a place where a lot of party’s take place and that if you study here you will surely earn a lot of money. After hearing all this the curiousity inside me forced me to inquire a little more about IITs. 
Good that my best friend had a sister who knew everything about it. Then I came to knew about the exam that fucked everybody. Getting back to the story,I was completely destroyed and my mother and elder brother knew that if they didn’t talked to me or diverted my mind I will be slowly absorbed in my sadness and would go to depression.
   My brother has been the most helpful friend, guide or teacher that I have ever got. He insisted me to take a drop and prepare one more year for my dream. I told him that I was ready to take a drop but the thing that was itching me was that what was the difference between those who enjoyed their one year and me  who gave up  his comfort zone and studied, both were not selected. He told me that the difference was very clear to him and that I will come to know about that difference after one year. Today I know what he was talking about, he knew that the capability of giving up my comfort zone to achieve something was very well embedded in me. 
   After that I enjoyed thoroughly for a month with my family, friends and my gf.But only till JEE ADVANCE exam. After that I knew that I have to start again everything . This time I didn’t join all three coachings ,but only joined a math coaching whose teacher worked more as a motivational guru (which I needed the most). 
Then came the most difficult part for me, to tell my girlfriend that I cannot continue the relationship. It was not only hard for me but also it was hard for her to end things like this , because we were somehow connected to each other at an emotional level. She said that instead of breaking up with me, she’ll wait for me one year and we decided to talk once in fifteen days. And very easily I ended my relationship or did I because the after effects were going to come. But this time I was ready for anything that’ll come up. Many times during the preparation I thought what if she found a new boyfriend and dumped me. All these thoughts started to mess up with my mind. But this time I was fully prepared I talked to my mother whenever all this came to my mind, I listened to motivational speeches, read the life stories of Dr. A P J Abdul Kalam, Muhmmmad Ali. In short I was diverting my attention to all the necessary things for a student rather than giving any single minute on foolish thoughts. I even wrote letters to future me telling that how bad it felt after failing and that this time I’ll not do anything to come in between me and my goal. I ll not let me also come in between me and my dreams. I did not studied all day but whenever I studied, I studied with full concentration. I studied for around 7-8 hours a day and divided the time partially, 
Physics 
As I loved physics very much I gave more time to it. I refered BM Sharma for problems and theory both. After giving the paper I can tell that physics is not only about solving questions but you should analyze some good questions and keep them in your mind.
 Chemistry
For chemistry I knew that it was the most scoring subject so I invested a decent amount of time in it. 
* Physical Chemistry: For physical chemistry I reffered ABC for theory and some advanced topics for JEE ADVANCED I studied from coaching notes . For questions I solved Narendra Awasthi and previous years questions which gave me the idea of what type of question I can expect in the exam.
* Organic Chemistry: Most interesting part of chemistry. I reffered Arihant’s Ranjeet Shahi for theory and Questions. It’s a complete guide and for more advance level questions I solved MS Chauhan.
* Inorganic Chemistry: I hated this part the most as we have to learn a lot of topics . But here comes the trick , I prepared various tips and tricks for learning various series,orders,reaction. (If you want I can tell you about some tricks that I used just message me) And beside this my notes of coaching(which I joined in class 12th) were very helpful. The rest of the topics I learnt from Resonances Inorganic Material.

Maths
I mostly focused on the class notes and  solved question from the sheet that I got in the coaching.I solved previous years for various topics so that I can get to know the level of questions. If you want any book then you can refer Cengages Ghanshyam Tewani for questions.
Previous Years Question: I realized the importance of solving previous year questions of a topic of any subject at the starting of my drop year. My coaching teacher told me that instead of solving any new book(apart from what you are using) you should give preference to previous year questions. 
    The day of examination came and  I gave the exam with full confidence and got around 180 marks in Mains. I took a one day break and after that started revising all the concepts for ADVANCE . I was enrolled in a test series which held test every week.Apart from test series my coaching also conducted tests which helped me a lot to know my performance and my all india level. I tried to remove maximum of my mistakes. 
      The D day came , I gave the paper. After giving the paper I was confident that I ll get selected . My brother calculated my marks from the online available answer key. The calculated marks were much less than what I expected. My life was shattered , I didn’t knew what to do . All my hopes were gone. On the result day I was sleeping as I had no hope of getting a good rank. Suddenly my brother rushed in my room and started to ask me that I should atleast check my result. I didn’t wanted to check my result but I wanted to see who came first and what was the cutoff that year. I was expecting a cutoff around 110 and when I saw that when the cutoff was 75 marks , my mind went crazy. Then I realized that it was not only me whose paper went bad but it was most of the students who were in the same condition.
       I went to my coaching as the site was not opening due to huge traffic. Sir was having the list of all the students who were selected along with their rank. I told him my roll no. and and then after searching for a while a smile appeared on his face and looking at my half pale face he said ,”Gupta ji mithai khilao…..ho gaye select(Rishabh bring a box of sweets …..you are selected)”. After hearing those words I started jumping in my place, I hugged my sir and all my friends. I called my mother straightaway , she picked up the phone and curiously asked ,”beta kya hua?(what happened son?).” 
There were tears in my eyes and I said ,”Ho gaya mummy (I got selected mom).”
My brother took the phone from her and I literally shouted while crying ,”Bhaiya ho gaya …..ho gaya bhaiya.” . I could hear that my mother and brother were crying , there was a sense of relief in their voices.
In the end I can tell you one thing the feeling that you get when you aim for something and you achieve can not be compared to any material satisfaction. I will not give that moment of joy that I got while telling my mother that I was selected for any amount of money. No matter how much money anybody gives me I cannot give that moment because I have earned that moment. Remember there will be hard times in your preparation time , there will be times when you will feel that nothing is going right and you should leave it. But hang on till the end. I am not saying that you should remove all the comforts from your life ,  but whatever thing/person is coming between you and your dreams REMOVE HIM/HER/IT. Don’t even let yourself come in between you and your dreams. It will be difficult at first but you should see the big picture. At last I want to say give your 100% …..Stay strong and ALL THE BEST!!!! 


